Kurzgesagt have some of the best
educational animations ever. And if
you've spent any time on YouTube, you
have likely seen one of their videos.
Now, you might not believe this, but one
of their videos can take over 1,200
hours to create. However, what if I told
you that I actually managed to recreate
one of their entire animation sequences
all just by using AI. So, in this video,
I'll show you exactly how to create
videos like Kurzgesagt. And by watching
this video till the end, you're also
going to learn how to apply this skill
set to replicate any channel that you
want on YouTube. And so, in this video,
I'm going to show you multiple different
processes. I'm not just going to show
you how to create the images. We're
going to go over ideas, scripts, image
styles, visual prompts, voice-overs,
image generation, and finally, we're
going to animate everything together in
order to create these videos. And so, we
have quite a lot to cover in this video,
but firstly, we have to go over ideas.
And in order to do this, I'm just going
to use Claude. And all I'm going to do
is send this prompt. Give me 50
educational video ideas in Kurzgesagt's
style. So, I'll open up Claude, use Opus
4.6, and send it off. And while that's
generating, I want to show you the
results one more time because these
honestly came out so much better than I
could have imagined. I mean, these are
all results that took me literally 5
minutes to create, and they created such
nice animations fully done by AI. This
is honestly such a good skill worth
having in 2026, no matter your career
professional, and you can also learn
this as a complete beginner. And okay,
as you can see, we have our 50
educational ideas. So, some examples are
What if the moon suddenly vanished
tonight? Why can't we grow a new teeth?
Some animals can. AI doesn't think,
here's what it actually does. What
happens inside of a nuclear explosion?
And I mean, we have 50 other ideas
basically that we can generate in a
matter of seconds. So, that's how you
get the idea for one of these videos.
Next, we are going to need to create a
script for the voice-over. Now, look, I
could show you like the lazy way to do
this, just going into Claude, telling it
to create a Kurzgesagt idea script using
this topic. But if you're subscribed to
this channel, which by the way, if you
haven't already, make sure to subscribe.
95% of you guys are not subscribed. And
if you subscribe, you're going to get
more videos like this in your for you
page. So, make sure you subscribe down
below. But with that being said, I went
ahead and got the the of five different
Kurzgesagt videos in order to
essentially fine-tune a model on the
actual scriptwriting process so that it
can pick up on certain trends tactics
used by the scriptwriters at Kurzgesagt
so that we can create the best possible
script. If you want to do this yourself,
all you have to do is scroll down a
little bit, open up the description,
click here on show transcript, and then
copy the transcript. You're going to
have to have VidIQ installed, which you
can use completely for free. This isn't
sponsored, by the way. I did used to
work with these guys, but they honestly
just have a really good tool, that's why
I'm recommending it. So, once you have
it, you can simply go up here, copy and
then you can paste it into Google Doc.
By the way, if you want these
transcripts, I mean, you can do it
yourself, or I'm going to leave these,
and I'm going to leave every single
prompt below the video. So, just click
on the link below. But, once you have
the transcripts, I recommend getting a
couple just so that I can actually pick
up on the patterns. The next thing you
want to do is we want to send off this
prompt along with the transcripts into
any AI model of your choice. I recommend
Opus 4.6 because it has personally the
best copywriting. And so, for context,
this prompt just basically tells about
the transcripts, and then we're asking
for the exact structure so that I can
paste it into any AI model, and it will
give me an eight- to 12-minute story in
the same style. So, again, we're not
generating the script right now. We are
generating a format, a repeatable
pattern that we can use for every single
video moving forward. So, all I went
ahead and done is paste this prompt into
Cloud and paste it into the doc, which
is this thing you see here, basically
five different transcripts from YouTube
videos from Kurzgesagt, and we're going
to send it off. And so, this was the
result. It's quite long, so I'm not
going to go through all of it, but let
me just break it down really quick. So,
at the very start, we have a very basic
prompt engineering technique, which is
giving some sort of a role to the AI,
then giving it a task. And then further
down, we have more context on what the
actual script itself should be like. So,
we have the target length, structure,
curiosity hook. We have essential
question, and we also have timestamps to
each one of these points so that it has
some sort of a reference to go off. Then
we have more context and setup,
explanation of the journey. And since we
gave it five different transcripts, it
has a lot of analogies and a lot lot as
you can see, for every single one of
these processes. So, look, I'm going to
just scroll through if you want to just
watch the video, copy it, and paste it
in yourself. But again, if you want the
whole entire thing, then I'm just going
to leave it linked below the video for
you to be able to just simply copy and
paste it into your workflow. But anyway,
the important part that you need to
understand, I mean, all these topics are
cool and all, but down at the bottom, we
have topic. This is the only thing that
we need to actually customize in this
prompt. And so, I'll show you the actual
generation process in a minute, but this
is just the first part of the format
that we need. The second part is going
to be the image style. So, the first
thing I've done is I took a few
screenshots from Kirill Sacks' videos
from many different scenes so that I
will understand the style better, as you
can see. And then once again, you can
use ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude, Quinn,
Kimi, doesn't matter. Just paste this
prompt in along with the screenshots,
and then simply send it off. And so,
inside of the prompt, let me just read
it real quick, we are giving context
about the screenshots, and then we're
telling it to define the animation
style, and we simply want it to give us
a prompt based on the idea that would
allow me to generate AI images in the
exact same style. This should be
universal for every type of image idea.
So again, these are super simple
prompts, very short sentences, and very
simple English that you can paste, and
then you can get this in return, which
is a much more advanced, much more
sophisticated, and just better overall
prompt engineered prompt. And so, once
again, this is the result. You can read
it if you want. Again, it's going to be
linked below. And so, once we have the
image style and we have the script
format, we now move on to creating the
visual prompts. And so, I tried to
illustrate this in the easiest way
possible. Basically, we have the style
reference, which is this thing that we
have over here, the image style. That
will not change. Then we have the script
prompt with your idea, which once again,
it's this entire section down here with
inserting your topic down at the very
bottom. And then we have a new prompt,
which once again, as always, just linked
down below, which you can see on screen
right here. And so, the idea that I will
go with is, "How many bones are in the
human body?" Super straightforward. And
so, let's craft this prompt. So, once
again, we can go back here and copy this
entire thing. Then I'm going to go back
in the Claude, and I'm just going to
make a new chat so that we have fresh
context. Paste that entire thing in.
Then I'm going to get the image style
reference, so I'll copy that one again.
I'm going to wrap it in XML tags, image
style. This just helps the AI model
understand and break down the prompt
better. And then I'm just going to copy
this new prompt that I have over here,
and I'm going to paste that down in the
bottom. Now, one thing I forgot to do is
change the topic down in the very
bottom, so make sure you actually change
this because this is very important. So,
I'm just going to change this and then
I'm going to send off this prompt. And
once it generates, it's going to look
something like this. We're going to get
a result with a bunch of different
visual directions and a bunch of
different little scripts. Obviously, we
can customize this to our own liking if
we want, change some small stuff around,
but in general this is going to be 80 if
not 90% done. Because there has been a
lot of time put into actually creating
this prompt. This isn't just an AI
generated prompt. There has been lots of
tweaks, lots of optimization, and
fine-tuning of these prompts to make
them as good as possible so that you can
literally just copy and paste. So again,
AI models are not deterministic, meaning
they're not going to give you the same
result every time. They might not even
give you the same exact format every
time. So, this might look slightly
different, but in general, what we have
here is the topic up the very top, the
timestamp, the script, and then the
visual direction for the script. if you
can connect the dots, basically we're
going to use this in order to create the
AI voice over, and we're going to use
this in order to create the AI images.
Now, the AI voice over, which is the
next section, is done on 11 Labs, mainly
because this is the best company for AI
voice at the moment. And it is super
straightforward. I'm not going to go too
deep into this because I'm sure you
already know how to create voices with
11 Labs. But for those that don't know,
all you got to do is sign in to 11 Labs,
link down below. Again, not sponsored,
obviously. Then, on the left you can
click on text to speech, and then here
I'm going to basically add the first
section, which is "Your body contains
206 bones blah blah blah." Paste that
into here. Now, up here I actually have
my own voice because in one of my recent
videos I actually went ahead and showed
you how to recreate yourself as a clone
and recreate your voice. So look, if you
are subscribed, you would have seen
this. But regardless, on the right over
here, I'll just move my camera, you
basically have a bunch of different
settings, speed, stability. I'm sure you
understand what this all means. So,
change it to your likings, pick the
voice you like, and then to the left of
my camera we can just click on generate
speech, send that off, and then you have
your voice over. It's as easy as that.
You can do this completely for free if
you want. And so over here I have the
entire script, as you can see. So, what
we need to do next is cut this up into
the different visual segments. Because
we have the entire script here, now I
need to know how long each section is,
so that I can direct the animations
later in the video to match the same
length as the voice over works. That's
the pattern I'll be talking about. So, I
cut it down. I also trimmed it down a
little bit because I thought it was a
little bit long, and it looks something
like this with some cuts in between
here. So, I know this is one animation,
this is another, this is another, etc.
Here's a better visual for this. So, for
example, this script might be these two
cuts, this script might be this cut, and
this script might be this cut. I colored
them over here just so that you can see
it visually better. But once you have
the script laid out and labeled, the
next thing we need to do is create a
images. So, I like to use Nanobana 2 for
this because it's very good at
reasoning, it has consistency, it's very
good at editing the images, you can use
style references, and it's good for many
different styles. So, which website do I
use? Google AI Studio, Gemini, Hexfield,
Freepik? I mean, I made videos on pretty
much all of these. So, which one should
you use? It doesn't really matter. I'm
just going to use Hexfield simply
because they had a really good deal at
the moment and had a bunch of credits,
but it doesn't matter. You just need to
use Nanobana 2 Pro, in my opinion. I
would probably lean towards Google AI
Studio instead of Gemini, so I guess
I'll remove Gemini from here because it
has watermarks, which we don't want. And
so, it's going to be the same process
that applies as we've done previously.
We basically take what we have here,
copy it over, and paste it as the visual
reference. Now, again, I'm going to
leave a link for every single tool that
I am using, and they are going to be
affiliate links, meaning if you do click
on them, you're going to save yourself
money, and you're going to support me by
using the affiliate link. So, win-win, I
guess. And so, inside of Hexfield, I'm
going to go up here to image, create
image, and down here we have basically
the prompt box. All we need to do is
change auto to Nanobana 2. We're going
to change the aspect ratio to 16 by 9,
meaning it's a horizontal video. Going
to keep it at 1K quality, and we're
going to keep the batch size at 1. And
then, we're going to just go back to the
result we had over here, copy the visual
direction down here, which was basically
the first animation, and simply paste it
into Hexfield. Click on generate, and
then we see it loading over here. And
so, to save you time, I'm basically
going to just show you the results I got
for every single of these. So, for the
first one, you can read the prompt if
you want. I got this result of the blob
next to the skeleton. For the second
one, it was this baby blob. Then for
this one, we had the baby blob, but as
you seen, I transformed one word in the
prompt and it turned into this nicer
blob instead. And the reason I basically
turned it into this blob was for
consistency because if we're continuing
with a blob like this, we don't want to
just change it into a baby all of a
sudden. So, that's why Nanobot 2 is so
good is because of the image
consistency. Anyway, for the second last
prompt, we had this one which was the
blob with a bunch of crash max and
bones. And then for the last one, we had
these bones next to a solidified bone.
Again, this was super straightforward
and really easy to do. All you do is
just copy the prompt and paste it into
Hexfield. Now, for possibly the most
important section of the video, it's the
animations. I can't stress enough how
many people create a good AI images,
create a good voice over, they create
the script, the idea, whatever, but then
they fail on the animations because of a
few key steps which I'm about to show
you. Firstly, which video model? Well, I
recommend VO3.1 Fast. It has very good
prompt understanding, very good motion
quality, a bunch of different styles,
very consistent, and it's faster than
VO3.1 because when you're generating
these videos, it's such a pain to just
sit there and wait and wait and wait and
basically ruin your flow state because
you are trying to generate this video
and all you're doing is waiting. It
pisses me off, so that's why I'm using
fast and it's also really good. And so,
again, going back into Hexfield, this
time I'm going to go up to video and
then create video and I'm going to zoom
in a bit and let me show you what's
actually important in here. So, the
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to scroll down to model, click on model,
type in VO3.1 Fast with the audio,
select that. Then, we have the frames.
So, once again, we can go back and copy
basically this image, add it as the
first frame, copy the second image, and
then add it as the last frame. I'm going
to leave the prompt box empty cuz it
doesn't really matter. Quality, I can
leave it 1080p or 4K, up to you. Change
this to 16x9 once again. And now, this
is important. The time here should match
your voice over as closely as possible.
So, over here, you can see that the
first animation is roughly 5 seconds
long, meaning I shouldn't generate an
8-second transition. It should be closer
to 4 or 6. Now, since this is just over
5, so it's closer to 6, I'm going to go
back and make this a six-second
transition. And then I'm going to just
click on generate and send it off. And
by the way, just before I show you what
actually came out, if you're confused
with how to actually use this tool,
which is Premiere Pro, even though I
think AI is making the work of editors
faster and faster and making it so much
easier for us, it's important to
understand the fundamentals so that you
can do stuff like this. Because in a
second, I'm going to show you the major
mistake that people do when they get to
the second animation. But if you want to
learn how to create AI animations, how
to trim with AI, how to actually use
Premiere Pro, how to use After Effects,
how to land clients. I basically cover
all of this inside of the Editing
Evolution. If you want to learn more,
you can just click the link down below
and watch the video that I have made
explaining what Editing Evolution
actually is. But anyway, let's check out
our animation.
&gt;&gt; Your body contains 206 bones, but here's
the strange part. A newborn baby
&gt;&gt; I mean, this is a really good animation.
It's super high quality. We can also
upscale this or create this in 4K, but I
mean, yeah, this is really nice. Even
the transition from blue to purple, the
fact that it goes past the skeleton
really nicely. I mean, this would take
so much time to master and learn. I
don't think you guys understand how long
this would take to actually create with
Illustrator, then pasting into After
Effects, then rigging the whole
characters. There's so much to this. It
used to take, you know, a whole team and
thousands of hours, literally, to create
one of these videos. But now, you can do
this as a one-man team, if you're
obviously dedicated enough with these
kind of tools. But anyway, let me show
you now the major mistake. The major
mistake people do is that they do like a
completely new animation now for the
second part. That is not what you should
do. What you should do is you should use
the last frame of the first video as the
first frame of the next video so that
you can continue this smooth transition
cycle. And this is what I'm going to
show you. So, going back into the
six-field, I'm basically going to swap
these, delete these, and I'm going to go
down here and use the third frame this
time. Then I'm going to paste it in, and
once again, same settings as before,
click on generate, and then this is the
transition that we're going to get. So,
I'm going to add a small default
transition here. It's very small because
there's a bit of a twitch with it, but
this is what you're going to get.
&gt;&gt; A newborn baby has around 270 bones.
&gt;&gt; In my opinion, this is much better than
just completely restarting from scratch
a new animation every time. And you can
do this for the third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, and basically through the whole
entire video. And you can do this in two
ways. If you don't have this last frame
for whatever reason, you can just click
on this button down here, export last
frame, and then you can use this as the
frame which will generate that image at
the very end. But anyways, let me
quickly show you the animation. So, we
have the start over here that I just
showed you. Then we have this section of
the baby going out.
Then it transforms.
&gt;&gt; pieces. So, what happened to them?
Did we lose them? Did they break? Or did
something far stranger happen inside our
bodies?
How do 270 bones somehow become 206?
&gt;&gt; And keep in mind, this is also on point
with the actual script itself because it
has reasoning and it understands the
context of the script. And since we
optimized these prompts so heavily and
since we went over everything so many
times, this is honestly the best system
I could find for creating these style
animations. Again, you can use this for
literally whatever creator you want.
Now, if you made it this far, all I ask
is you subscribe to this channel because
94% of you guys are not subscribed. And
I just want to get this number down. So,
if you're enjoying the content, make
sure to subscribe. And if you want to
learn how you can use AI for every
single use case that comes to video
editing, then I highly suggest you watch
this video next. It covers like 16
different use cases that you can use AI
for as a video editor. And even if
you're not a video editor, I do think
it's a very interesting video to watch.
So, go watch that next. I'll see you
there.
